MSC4183: Additional Error Codes for submitToken endpoint (#4183)
matrix-org/matrix-doc: proposals/4183-submitToken-error-codes.md

# MSC4183: Additional Error Codes for submitToken endpoint

The [`POST /_matrix/identity/v2/validate/email/submitToken`](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.11/identity-service-api/#post_matrixidentityv2validateemailsubmittoken)
and [`POST /_matrix/identity/v2/validate/msisdn/submitToken`](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.11/identity-service-api/#post_matrixidentityv2validatemsisdnsubmittoken)
endpoints do not specify any particular specific error codes, instead relying on the common error codes defined in the
identity service API.

However, these common error codes don't have any codes to signal many errors that can occur in these
APIs: most obviously, that the token the user entered was incorrect.

This MSC can be considered similar to [MSC4178](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/pull/4178)
although that MSC is for `requestToken` on the C/S API only.

The [`POST /_matrix/client/v3/account/3pid/email/requestToken`](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.11/client-server-api/#post_matrixclientv3account3pidemailrequesttoken) endpoint in the C/S API also specifies a `submit_url` response parameter, defining its parameters to

> be the same as the Identity API's `submitToken` endpoints. This MSC also affects this.

Author: Done

## Proposal

Add the following specific error code as a code that can be returned by the two endpoints given above:

>  * `M_TOKEN_INCORRECT`: Indicates that the token that the user entered to validate the session is incorrect.

Reviewer: Would it be worth re-using/redefining `M_UNKNOWN_TOKEN` from the C-S API?

Author: Oh, yes, probably

Author: On second thoughts... that's talking about an access token whereas this is the user entering a code that's been sent to them, so they're not really the same thing. I think maybe it's clearer if it's a separate code? I can update the MSC to call this out if you agree.

Author: Noted this in c026da70

HTTP status code 400 should be used for this error.

Additionally specify that the following common error codes can be returned:
 * `M_INVALID_PARAM`: One of the supplied parameters in not valid.
 * `M_SESSION_EXPIRED`: The validation session is question has expired.

HTTP status code 400 should also be used for both of these errors.

Also change the C/S API's definition of [`POST /_matrix/client/v3/account/3pid/email/requestToken`](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.11/client-server-api/#post_matrixclientv3account3pidemailrequesttoken)

> to specify that the entire API is the same, including response / error codes, rather than just parameters.

Author: Hopefully clearer?

## Potential issues

> None forseen.
> 
> ## Alternatives
> 
> None considered.
> 
> ## Security considerations
> 
> None forseen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
None foreseen.

## Alternatives

None considered.

## Security considerations

None foreseen.
```

## Unstable prefix

No unstable prefix is deemed necessary. Sydent already sends the common error codes and also sends
`M_NO_VALID_SESSION` if the code is incorrect. Once an identity server (or homeserver) switches to
use the new error code, they may not recognise the error condition correctly until updated to support

> the new code. We say that this is acceptable in favour of avoiding the complexity of negotiating error

Reviewer: > Once an identity server (or homeserver) switches to use the new error code, they may not recognise the error condition correctly until updated to support the new code.

I'm failing to understand what this means. Is "they" the homeserver?

Author: Yeah, that wasn't super clear. Is that better?

codes with API versions. Since the identity server is generally used via the homeserver now, most

> uses of this API will not currently be receiving a sensible error code in this situation anyway.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
users of this API will not currently receive a sensible error code in this situation anyway.
```

The [`POST
/_matrix/client/v3/account/3pid/email/requestToken`](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.11/client-server-api/#post_matrixclientv3account3pidemailrequesttoken)
endpoint in the C/S API also specifies a `submit_url` response parameter, defining its parameters to be the same as the
Identity API's `submitToken` endpoints. Everything this MSC specifies applies to this endpoint in the same way.

## Proposal

Add the following specific error code as a code that can be returned by the two endpoints given above:
 * `M_TOKEN_INCORRECT`: Indicates that the token that the user entered to validate the session is incorrect.

HTTP status code 400 should be used for this error.

Additionally specify that the following common error codes can be returned:
 * `M_INVALID_PARAM`: One of the supplied parameters in not valid.
 * `M_SESSION_EXPIRED`: The validation session is question has expired.

HTTP status code 400 should also be used for both of these errors.

Also change the C/S API's definition of [`POST
/_matrix/client/v3/account/3pid/email/requestToken`](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.11/client-server-api/#post_matrixclientv3account3pidemailrequesttoken)

> to specify that the endpoint is the same as the I/S API version in all ways, including response / error codes, rather than just parameters.

Reviewer 2: wait, what? this came out of left field.  Why are we suddenly changing `requestToken` in an MSC which purports to be about `submitToken`? 

There doesn't seem to be any justification for this in the proposal, or discussion of it in general.

What exactly would need to change to bring the current definition into line with the I/S API?

Reviewer 2: ohhh by "the endpoint" do you mean "the endpoint referenced by the `submit_url` response field"? Could you say so if so?

Still, presumably you don't mean "in all ways" -- for example, it doesn't need an IS access token. Would be good to tighten this up a bit.

Author: Yep, indeed, that wasn't very clear, hopefully better now.

that MSC is for `requestToken` on the C-S API only.

The [`POST
/_matrix/client/v3/account/3pid/email/requestToken`](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.11/client-server-api/#post_matrixclientv3account3pidemailrequesttoken)
endpoint in the C/S API also specifies a `submit_url` response parameter, defining its parameters to be the same as the
Identity API's `submitToken` endpoints. Everything this MSC specifies applies to this endpoint in the same way.

## Proposal

Add the following specific error code as a code that can be returned by the two endpoints given above:
 * `M_TOKEN_INCORRECT`: Indicates that the token that the user entered to validate the session is incorrect.

Note that we deliberately chose not to re-use `M_UNKNOWN_TOKEN` since that refers to an access token, whereas this
refers to a token that the user enters.

HTTP status code 400 should be used for this error.

Additionally specify that the following common error codes can be returned:
 * `M_INVALID_PARAM`: One of the supplied parameters in not valid.
 * `M_SESSION_EXPIRED`: The validation session is question has expired.

HTTP status code 400 should also be used for both of these errors.

> Also change the corresponding submitYoken-like API given in the C/S API's definition of [`POST
> /_matrix/client/v3/account/3pid/email/requestToken`](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.11/client-server-api/#post_matrixclientv3account3pidemailrequesttoken)
> to specify that both request and response parameters / error codes are the same as the I/S API version, rather than just parameters, apart from needing an I/S API token.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Also change the `submit_url` field in the response to [`POST
/_matrix/client/v3/account/3pid/email/requestToken`](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.11/client-server-api/#post_matrixclientv3account3pidemailrequesttoken),
to specify that response parameters and error codes are the same as the I/S API version, as well as request parameters.
```

Reviewer 2: Are you sure about this, by the way? AFAICT synapse currently returns a bit of HTML here.

Reviewer 2: I don't think the sample impl (https://github.com/element-hq/synapse/pull/17625) actually changes the email submit-token endpoint.

Author: So the deal here is that the POST endpoint isn't proxied by Synapse: it doesn't need to be as Sydent's email can just link straight to its own version of the GET endpoint. I've tried to clarify this in 63dcbe09.

The [`POST
/_matrix/identity/v2/validate/email/submitToken`](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.11/identity-service-api/#post_matrixidentityv2validateemailsubmittoken)
and [`POST
/_matrix/identity/v2/validate/msisdn/submitToken`](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.11/identity-service-api/#post_matrixidentityv2validatemsisdnsubmittoken)
endpoints do not specify any specific error codes, instead relying on the common error codes defined in the identity
service API.

However, these common error codes don't have any codes to signal many errors that can occur in these APIs: most
obviously, that the token the user entered was incorrect.

This MSC can be considered similar to [MSC4178](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/pull/4178) although
that MSC is for `requestToken` on the C-S API only.

The [`POST
/_matrix/client/v3/account/3pid/email/requestToken`](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.11/client-server-api/#post_matrixclientv3account3pidemailrequesttoken)
endpoint in the C/S API also specifies a `submit_url` response parameter, defining its parameters to be the same as the
Identity API's `submitToken` endpoints. Everything this MSC specifies applies to this endpoint in the same way.

> Note that the email `submitToken` endpoint ([`POST

Reviewer 2: it's a bit confusing that we jump from talking about an endpoint in the C-S API to one in the IS API without mentioning that.

Also, if you're talking specifically about the POST variant, you better say that, rather than saying that the entire endpoint is unused.

Author: Yes - sort of, I don't think there is a POST variant for email on the C/S API. Hopefully clearer in af1dc860.

Reviewer 2: This is still confusing: we still jump from talking about an endpoint in the C-S API to one in the IS API without mentioning that.

is not generally used in practice: Sydent's emails includes a link to click and therefore use the
`GET` version. This proposal updates both for consistency.

## Proposal

Add the following specific error code as a code that can be returned by the two endpoints given above:
 * `M_TOKEN_INCORRECT`: Indicates that the token that the user entered to validate the session is incorrect.

Note that we deliberately chose not to re-use `M_UNKNOWN_TOKEN` since that refers to an access token, whereas this
refers to a token that the user enters.

HTTP status code 400 should be used for this error.

Additionally specify that the following common error codes can be returned:
 * `M_INVALID_PARAM`: One of the supplied parameters in not valid.
 * `M_SESSION_EXPIRED`: The validation session is question has expired.

HTTP status code 400 should also be used for both of these errors.

Also change the `submit_url` field in the response to [`POST
/_matrix/client/v3/account/3pid/email/requestToken`](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.11/client-server-api/#post_matrixclientv3account3pidemailrequesttoken),

> to specify that response parameters and error codes are the same as the I/S API version, as well as request parameters.

Reviewer 2: why does this only apply to `POST /_matrix/client/v3/account/3pid/email/requestToken`, and not also:

* `POST /_matrix/client/v3/account/password/email/requestToken`
* `POST /_matrix/client/v3/account/password/msisdn/requestToken`
* `POST /_matrix/client/v3/register/email/requestToken`
* `POST /_matrix/client/v3/register/msisdn/requestToken`
* `POST /_matrix/client/v3/account/3pid/msisdn/requestToken`

?

Author: Mmm, yeah - I'd done it as only editing what I needed to, but you're right, they should be consistent. Changed in 0f43a510.

# MSC4183: Additional Error Codes for submitToken endpoint

The [`POST
/_matrix/identity/v2/validate/email/submitToken`](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.11/identity-service-api/#post_matrixidentityv2validateemailsubmittoken)
and [`POST
/_matrix/identity/v2/validate/msisdn/submitToken`](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.11/identity-service-api/#post_matrixidentityv2validatemsisdnsubmittoken)
endpoints do not specify any specific error codes, instead relying on the common error codes defined in the identity
service API.

However, these common error codes don't have any codes to signal many errors that can occur in these APIs: most
obviously, that the token the user entered was incorrect.

This MSC can be considered similar to [MSC4178](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/pull/4178) although
that MSC is for `requestToken` on the C-S API only.

The [`POST
/_matrix/client/v3/account/3pid/email/requestToken`](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.11/client-server-api/#post_matrixclientv3account3pidemailrequesttoken)

> The numerous `requestToken` endpoints (enumerated in the proposal section) in the C/S API also specify a `submit_url`

Reviewer 2: this makes no sense

> The numerous `requestToken` endpoints (enumerated in the proposal section) in the C/S API also specify a `submit_url`

Reviewer 2: nit: it would be nice if we could decide whether it's C-S API or C/S API, rather than using both in adjacent paragraphs

response parameter, defining their parameters to be the same as the Identity API's `submitToken` endpoints. Everything
this MSC specifies applies to these endpoint in the same way.

Note that the `POST` version of the email `submitToken` endpoint ([`POST
/_matrix/identity/v2/validate/email/submitToken`](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.11/identity-service-api/#post_matrixidentityv2validateemailsubmittoken))
is not generally used in practice: Sydent's emails includes a link to click instead of the `submit_url` response field and
therefore use the `GET` version. Synapse does not implement the `POST` API for email validation for this reason. This
proposal updates both for consistency.

## Proposal

> Add the following specific error code as a code that can be returned by the two endpoints given above:

Reviewer 2: not least because there are now at least three different endpoints given above, I think you should restate which endpoints are changing here.

Author: fixed

 * `M_TOKEN_INCORRECT`: Indicates that the token that the user entered to validate the session is incorrect.

Note that we deliberately chose not to re-use `M_UNKNOWN_TOKEN` since that refers to an access token, whereas this
refers to a token that the user enters.

HTTP status code 400 should be used for this error.

Additionally specify that the following common error codes can be returned:
 * `M_INVALID_PARAM`: One of the supplied parameters in not valid.
 * `M_SESSION_EXPIRED`: The validation session is question has expired.

HTTP status code 400 should also be used for both of these errors.

> Also apply the same change to all the `submit_url` fields in the various response to the `POST requestToken` endpoints, ie:

Reviewer 2: seems like you're only talking about the `POST requestToken` endpoints *in the C-S API*

```suggestion
Also apply the same change to all the `submit_url` fields in the various response to the `POST requestToken` endpoints in the client-server API, i.e.:
```

 * [`POST /_matrix/client/v3/register/email/requestToken`](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.11/client-server-api/#post_matrixclientv3registeremailrequesttoken)
 * [`POST /_matrix/client/v3/register/msisdn/requestToken`](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.11/client-server-api/#post_matrixclientv3registerrequesttoken)
 * [`POST /_matrix/client/v3/account/3pid/email/requestToken`](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.11/client-server-api/#post_matrixclientv3account3pidemailrequesttoken)
 * [`POST /_matrix/client/v3/account/3pid/msisdn/requestToken`](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.11/client-server-api/#post_matrixclientv3account3pidmsisdnrequesttoken)
 * [`POST /_matrix/client/v3/account/password/email/requestToken`](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.11/client-server-api/#post_matrixclientv3accountpasswordemailrequesttoken)

>  * [`POST /_matrix/client/v3/account/password/msisdn/requestToken`](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.11/client-server-api/#post_matrixclientv3accountpasswordmsisdnrequesttoken)

Reviewer 2: haven't checked this morning, but I'm pretty sure your synapse implementation PR doesn't change all of these.

(I don't think synapse returns a `submit_url` from the `email/requestToken` endpoints, but it does from the `msisdn/requestToken` endpoints, and you haven't updated all the implementations of those submit_url endpoints.)

Author: It actually does (so it's just as well we included the other endpoints): the various different rest classes use that function in the handler to do the request to the ID server and then the error code is in the exception that it throws.

Reviewer 2: Right, so it does. To be clear:

* Synapse does not return a `submit_url` from any of the `POST /_matrix/client/v3*/email/requestToken` endpoints.
* Synapse does not support `POST /_matrix/client/v3/account/3pid/msisdn/requestToken` (removed in https://github.com/matrix-org/synapse/pull/6101)
* Both `POST /_matrix/client/v3/register/msisdn/requestToken` and `POST /_matrix/client/v3/account/3pid/msisdn/requestToken` use `IdentityHandler.requestMsisdnToken`.

  `requestMsisdnToken` sets `submit_url` to `/_matrix/client/unstable/add_threepid/msisdn/submit_token` (yes, the register endpoint uses the `add_threepid` callback).

  And `/_matrix/client/unstable/add_threepid/msisdn/submit_token` is updated by https://github.com/element-hq/synapse/pull/17625.

service API.

However, these common error codes don't have any codes to signal many errors that can occur in these APIs: most
obviously, that the token the user entered was incorrect.

This MSC can be considered similar to [MSC4178](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/pull/4178) although
that MSC is for `requestToken` on the C/S API only.

The numerous `requestToken` endpoints (enumerated in the proposal section) in the C/S API also specify a `submit_url`
response parameter, defining their parameters to be the same as the Identity API's `submitToken` endpoints. Everything
this MSC specifies applies to these endpoint in the same way.

Note that the `POST` version of the email `submitToken` endpoint ([`POST
/_matrix/identity/v2/validate/email/submitToken`](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.11/identity-service-api/#post_matrixidentityv2validateemailsubmittoken))
is not generally used in practice: Sydent's emails includes a link to click instead of the `submit_url` response field and
therefore use the `GET` version. Synapse does not implement the `POST` API for email validation for this reason. This

> proposal updates both for consistency.

Author: Hopefully clearer
